Second round of requirements review (#25)
elisa-tech/wg-medical-devices: applying-stpa/l1_reqs.txt

> REQ-1: The OpenAPS rig must pull required data from the other components of the system every X seconds or whenever this data is available.

Reviewer: Need to be specific about X,  possibly say "on a user defined periodic basis"

> REQ-1: The OpenAPS rig must pull required data from the other components of the system every X seconds or whenever this data is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-1: The OpenAPS rig must pull required data from the other components of the system on a user defined periodic basis.
```

> REQ-2: If OpenAPS believes that data is insufficient for a dosing recommendation to be made, OpenAPS should still predict the effect of the fallback dosing recommendation and if this is far out of the targets it should make a dosing recommendation anyway, with a warning.

Reviewer: Split to 2 requirements.
Provide definiton of what is out of targets.

> REQ-3: There should be a way for the human manually to override glucose data from the CGM / Nightscout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-3: There shall be a way for the human manually to override glucose data from the CGM / Nightscout.
```

> REQ-4: OpenAPS should prompt the user every week to calibrate the CGM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-4: OpenAPS shall prompt the user every week to calibrate the CGM.
```

> REQ-5: The OpenAPS rig should emit a warning if it's going out of range of the insulin pump.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-5: The OpenAPS rig shall emit a warning if it's going out of the specified range of the insulin pump.
```

> REQ-6: If the insulin pump goes out of range of OpenAPS, it should fall back to normal operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-6: If the insulin pump goes out of range set in OpenAPS, it should fall back to normal operation.
```

> REQ-7: OpenAPS shall have watchdog timer or heartbeat communications between systems to detect if insulin pump is working properly and if not warn the user.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-7: OpenAPS shall have watchdog timer or heartbeat communications between systems to detect if components are active and working properly and if not warn the user.
```

> REQ-7: OpenAPS should have watchdog timer or heartbeat communications between systems to detect if insulin pump is working properly and if not warn the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-7: OpenAPS shall have watchdog timer or heartbeat communications active between CGM and insulin pump  to detect if the devices are working properly and if not warn the user.
```

> REQ-8: If the Insulin Pump is on low battery, OpenAPS should stop sending it commands and let it fall back to normal operation.

Reviewer: Add requirement, that it shall also notify the user.

> REQ-8: If the Insulin Pump is on low battery, OpenAPS should stop sending it commands and let it fall back to normal operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-8: If the Insulin Pump is on low battery, OpenAPS shall stop sending it commands and let it fall back to normal operation.
```

> REQ-9: The OpenAPS algorithm must set a temporary basal dosing recommendation if the insulin dosage is not optimal and it has been over X minutes since the last temporary basal recommendation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-9: The OpenAPS algorithm must set a temporary basal dosing recommendation if the insulin dosage is not optimal and it has been over a defined period defined by TBD since the last temporary basal recommendation.
```

> REQ-10: OpenAPS algorithm shall be tested, validated in realtime for accuracy and designed securely.

Reviewer: Designed securely should be a separate requirement.    Definition should be referred to.

> REQ-10: OpenAPS algorithm should be tested, validated in realtime for accuracy and designed securely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-10: OpenAPS algorithm shall be tested, validated in realtime for accuracy and designed securely.
```

> REQ-10: OpenAPS algorithm should be tested, validated in realtime for accuracy and designed securely.

Reviewer: Designed securely should be separate requirement.   Definition of designed securely should be referenced?

> REQ-10: OpenAPS algorithm shall be tested, validated in realtime for accuracy and designed securely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-10: OpenAPS algorithm shall be tested, validated in realtime for accuracy.
```

> REQ-11: If OpenAPS is having problems communicating with other devices in the loop, OpenAPS should indicate this and fallback to the human programmed basal rates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-11: If OpenAPS is having problems communicating with other devices in the loop, OpenAPS shall indicate this and fallback to the human programmed basal rates.
```

REQ-12: OpenAPS shall warn the human actor if it is no longer connected to and/or no longer receiving information from Nightscout.

> REQ-13: There shall be checks for wireless interference every X minutes, and OpenAPS shall send a warning to the user if there is a positive result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-13: There shall be checks for wireless interference on a periodic basis as defined by TBD, and OpenAPS shall send a warning to the user if interference is detected.
```

> REQ-13: There should be checks for wireless interference every X minutes, and OpenAPS should send a warning to the user if there is a positive result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-13: There shall be checks for wireless interference at a set period defined by TBD , and OpenAPS shall send a warning to the user if interference is detected.
```

REQ-14: OpenAPS plausibility check shall include examination of the raw data from the insulin pump to ensure the data is in its expected range.
REQ-15: OpenAPS must inform the human actor if the insulin pump is set to use the wrong units.

> REQ-16: If the OpenAPS rig components are not connected together properly there must be an alarm, warning or error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-16: If the OpenAPS rig components are not connected together properly there must be notification provided to the user.
```

REQ-17: The OpenAPS rig components must connect together securely.

> REQ-18: User manual must specify the correct hardware setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-18: The OpenAPS User Manual must specify the correct hardware setup.
```

> REQ-19: Software must check that all required OpenAPS dependencies are present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-19: Software must check that all required OpenAPS software dependencies are present.
```

REQ-20: Hardware connections need to be set up to match the configuration the human entered to the openAPS configuration.

> REQ-21: Communication between components must have an integrity check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-21: All physical system components must have a communication integrity check.
```

> REQ-22: Must have watchdog timer or heartbeat communications between systems to detect if insulin pump is working properly and warn the user if it is not.

Reviewer: Double check if this is redundant with earlier and can be consolidated?

> REQ-22: SEE REQ-7 (Must have watchdog timer or heartbeat communications between systems to detect if insulin pump is working properly and warn the user if it is not.)

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-22: SEE REQ-7 (OpenAPS shall have watchdog timer or heartbeat communications between systems to detect if components are active and working properly and if not warn the user.)
```

> REQ-23: OpenAPS must alert human actor if the insulin pump has stopped giving feedback.

Reviewer: Double check not redundant with earlier version

REQ-24: OpenAPS shall be able to interpret error signals from insulin pump and convey to the human actor.
REQ-25: The OpenAPS rig must have as long a battery life as possible.
REQ-26: The OpenAPS rig must alert the user when on low power.
REQ-27: The OpenAPS rig must have a safe exit process.

> REQ-28: Docs must have guidelines on avoiding a low power supply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-28: The OpenAPS User Manual must have guidelines on avoiding a low power supply.
```

> REQ-29: If OpenAPS is having problems communicating with other devies in the loop, OpenAPS shall indicate this and fallback to the human programmed basal rates.

Reviewer: Possibly redundant with earlier

> REQ-30: OpenAPS wireless network signals must have a radio frequency between X MegaHertz and Y MegaHertz.

Reviewer: Get rid of X & Y and make it explicitly defined by TBD.

> REQ-30: OpenAPS wireless network signals must have a radio frequency between X MegaHertz and Y MegaHertz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-30: OpenAPS wireless network signals must have a radio frequency in a user defined range specified in  MegaHertz.
```

> REQ-31: OpenAPS documentation must direct the human actor to easily use the right OpenAPS software dependencies, perhaps via an automated script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-31: OpenAPS User Manual must direct the human actor to incorporate the right OpenAPS software dependencies.
```

> REQ-32: If the human actor updates to incompatible software dependencies, there must be a way to restore software dependencies that work for OpenAPS easily.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-32: If the human actor updates to incompatible software dependencies, there must be a way to restore software dependencies that work for OpenAPS.
```

REQ-33: When backward compatibility is affected by an update, it needs to be clearly flagged.

> REQ-34: There shall be a heartbeat mechanism to monitor activeness between systems.

Reviewer 2: Check for double requirement

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-34: SEE REQ-7 (OpenAPS shall have watchdog timer or heartbeat communications between systems to detect if components are active and working properly and if not warn the user.)
```

> REQ-35: When the OpenAPS system is running, there shall not be a period of X seconds with no active dosing recommendation from OpenAPS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-35: When the OpenAPS system is running, there shall not be a period of TBDseconds with no active dosing recommendation from OpenAPS.
```

> REQ-36: OpenAPS application shall have a monitoring task that will check if tasks are taking too long to execute and warn the user if this occurs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-36: OpenAPS application shall have a monitoring task that will check if tasks are taking longer than X seconds to execute and warn the user if this occurs.
```

> REQ-37: The insulin pump must be set to the correct time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-37: The insulin pump must be set to the correct time by the openAPS user.
```

REQ-38: If OpenAPS is using a different time to the insulin pump, OpenAPS shall notify the human actor.
REQ-39: OpenAPS shall be able to register human input of glucose levels.

> REQ-40: Insulin pump and OpenAPS rig must not be blocked off physically to the extent that they cannot connect, and this shall be explained in the docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-40: Insulin pump and OpenAPS rig must not be blocked off physically to the extent that they cannot connect, and this shall be explained in the OpenAPS user manual.
```

REQ-41: OpenAPS shall detect the local timezone and prompt the user to change the time when this changes.

> REQ-42: OpenAPS has a hardware integrity check and can communicate with all necessary peripherals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-42: OpenAPS shall have a hardware integrity check.
```

> REQ-43: OpenAPS glucose level value must match glucose data from the CGM, unless it has been overriden by a human input.

Reviewer 2: Need clarification: Does the user need to check this? Where does this requirement come from?

> REQ-44: Processing of glucose data needs to be tested and monitored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-44: Processing of glucose data shall to be continuously tested and monitored.
```

> REQ-45: OpenAPS glucose level value must match glucose data from the CGM, unless it has been overriden by a human inputProcessing of glucose data needs to be tested and monitored.

Reviewer 2: Check for duplicate requirements

> REQ-46: OpenAPS must verify that it is set to the correct time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-46: OpenAPS must verify that all systems are set to the same time.
```

> REQ-45: OpenAPS glucose level value must match glucose data from the CGM, unless it has been overriden by a human inputProcessing of glucose data needs to be tested and monitored.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-45: SEE REQ-43 (OpenAPS glucose level value must match glucose data from the CGM, unless it has been overriden by a human input.)
```

> REQ-47: When changing time zone, OpenAPS must either change to the correct time automatically or prompt the human actor to change the time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-47: When changing time zone, OpenAPS must change to the correct time automatically or if it cannot do so, prompt the human actor to change the time.
```

> REQ-48: The OpenAPS rig and it's potentially sensitive information packets must be secure and protected from being hacked into.

Reviewer 2: Check for duplicate requirements

> REQ-49: If the OpenAPS rig components are not connected together properly there must be a warning or error.

Reviewer 2: Check for duplicate requirements

REQ-50: OpenAPS shall make the human verify that the data they enter is correct.

> REQ-51: If the OpenAPS rig has run out of power the pump must fall back to normal non-OpenAPS operation.

Reviewer 2: Check for duplicate requirements

REQ-52: OpenAPS must check to see if the dependencies are on a 'compatible list' before allowing the user to make an update to OpenAPS dependencies.

> REQ-53: If there are new updates to OpenAPS dependencies which would be compatible with the rest of the system, they would be added to the compatible list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-53: If there are new updates to OpenAPS dependencies which would be compatible with the rest of the system, they shall be added to the compatible list.
```

> REQ-54: The time between OpenAPS being sent the data to make the dosing calculation and OpenAPS issuing and insulin dose must be < X seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-54: The time between OpenAPS being sent the data to make the dosing calculation and OpenAPS issuing and insulin dose must not exceed X seconds.
```

> REQ-55: OpenAPS must be configured accurately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
REQ-55: OpenAPS must be configured according to the openAPS user manual.
```

> REQ-56: OpenAPS must be set to the correct time.

Reviewer 2: Check for duplicate requirements

REQ-57: OpenAPS must be aware of the correct IOB and active dosing (including OpenAPS must be made aware if the insulin pump / has been disconnected from the body or OpenAPS).
REQ-58: OpenAPS must have an accurate model of the data necessary to make a recommendation.
REQ-59: OpenAPS algorithm must use a correct insulin to glucose calculation.
REQ-60: OpenAPS must use recent glucose level data from Nightscout at all times.
REQ-61: Nightscout glucose level data must be regularly checked for accuracy by human manual glucose reading.
REQ-62: OpenAPS shall only use glucose data that has been validated from Nightscout.

> REQ-63: Nightscout data shall be checked regarding plausibility of its data in comparison with the valid ranges approved by the FDA (e.g. the ones used be the pump and glucose monitor).

Reviewer 2: Check who or what needs to check this.

REQ-64: Nightscout data shall be checked regarding plausibility of state changes.
REQ-65: Nightscout data shall be checked regarding corruption and shall have integrity checks.
REQ-66: OpenAPS shall give a warning when human actor has provided abnormal carb data.
REQ-67: OpenAPS must include human bolus dosing in its IOB value.

> REQ-68: Human bolus dosing shall be encorparated into the OpenAPS IOB / active insulin figure.

Author: Duplicate

REQ-69: OpenAPS must make a valid prediction of future glucose levels based on available data.
REQ-70: OpenAPS must take as much useful data as possible for its data analysis.
REQ-71: OpenAPS docs must advise human actor how they can determine the correct settings for DIA / ISF / carb ratio.
REQ-72: OpenAPS shall advise human actor if something seems incorrect with the insulin pump settings.
REQ-73: OpenAPS shall prompt the human for data if glucose levels are X mg lower than expected.
REQ-74: OpenAPS shall get feedback from insulin pump about whether the pump has applied the dosing recommendation from OpenAPS.
REQ-75: OpenAPS shall prompt the human for data if the human hasn't entered data in a long time or if glucose levels are X mg higher than expected.

> REQ-76: Human actor must not suddenly consume a lot of food / sugar.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-76: Human actor must not suddenly consume more than X mg of sugar.
```

> REQ-76: Human actor must not suddenly consume a lot of food / sugar.

Author: Define 'a lot'?

REQ-77: OpenAPS must warn the human actor if insulin is in low supply.
REQ-78: OpenAPS shall prompt and possibly force glucose monitor information to be consistently manually tested by the human.

> REQ-79: If there is no data or insufficient available, this shold be indicated to the user.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-79: If there is no data or insufficient available, this should be indicated to the user.
```

REQ-80: Validity of used data must be checked. Only correct data shall be used for the openAPS algorithms.
REQ-81: OpenAPS shall prompt the human with the data it has and get human to verify that it shall be applied.

> REQ-82: If the data OpenAPS is programmed to required is received, OpenAPS must make a dosing recommendation.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-82: If the data OpenAPS is programmed to require is received, OpenAPS must make a dosing recommendation.
```

REQ-83: Insulin pump shall not make dosing recommendations if there are incorrect configurations which could ruin OpenAPS recommendations.
REQ-84: OpenAPS shall request the insulin pump settings / configurations and compare them to recommended values.
REQ-85: If there are wrong configurations, the human actor shall be prompted to change these.
REQ-86: If OpenAPS cannot pull configurations from the insulin pump, the pump shall go back to its normal operating mode.
REQ-87: Irregularities in the communication must be detected and actions/safe states used during communication problems.
REQ-88: Documentation must clearly request the human actor how to correctly test and apply all the insulin pump settings which would be necessary to give good dosing recommendations.
REQ-89: OpenAPS shall verify whether insulin pump settings are configured correctly for OpenAPS if it is not human dependent.

> REQ-90: SEE REQ-57 (OpenAPS shall monitor IOB levels and ensure that insulin doses are going through to the pump.)
> REQ-91: SEE REQ-51 (OpenAPS must be aware of the correct IOB and active dosing.)

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-90: SEE REQ-57 (OpenAPS must be aware of the correct IOB and active dosing.)
REQ-91: SEE REQ-57 (OpenAPS must be aware of the correct IOB and active dosing.)
```

REQ-92: OpenAPS shall notify user when other components' clock time differs from rig system clock.
REQ-93: OpenAPS shall only share information to authorised individuals.
REQ-94: OpenAPS shall receive warning from Nightscout if there is an operating request from another party and warn the human actor.
REQ-95: OpenAPS must have access to a timestamp of when insulin pump data was from, not just when it was sent.
REQ-96: OpenAPS data requests must always be comprehensible by the insulin pump.
REQ-97: Compatible insulin pump software and hardware versions must be specified.

> REQ-98: Correct openAPS request formatting must be specified, verified and monitored.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-98: Correct OpenAPS request formatting must be specified, verified and monitored.
```

REQ-108: OpenAPS must check every X minutes for all the latest information.
REQ-109: OpenAPS must not use information older than X minutes for dosing recommendation; if OpenAPS has incomplete data, the insulin pump shall use the human's programmed basal rates.
REQ-110: All code shall be reviewed by somebody with the required knowledge before merge.
REQ-111: OpenAPS must validate data received from insulin pump.
REQ-112: OpenAPS shall use the most recent data any dosing recommendation.
REQ-113: Process scheduling in the OS must ensure enough time for OpenAPS to run its functions.
REQ-114: If there have been changes to the OpenAPS algorithm, the implications of any timing changes shall be considered.
REQ-115: If the OpenAPS algorithm has a fixed time interval for making recommendations, this time interval shall always be updated whenever there is a change in the algorithm's information intake interval or a delay in information intake or processing.
REQ-116: Correct scheduling must be specified and monitored.
REQ-117: Correct program flow must be specified and monitored.

> REQ-118: CGM clock must be accurate and match RasPi time and real clock time, to nearest X seconds.

Author: Duplicate

REQ-119: All times shall be alligned with NTP or a common time source.
REQ-120: OpenAPS shall warn the human actor if Nightscout is not online.
REQ-121: OpenAPS shall have a time expectation of when it receives data from Nightscout and compare the time expectation with the timestamp - plausibility check.
REQ-122: OpenAPS shall perform compatibility checks with all interfacing applications and software and warn the human actor if there is an incompatibility detected.
REQ-123: OpenAPS shall have time expectation, plausiblity check, and check of timestamp to ensure validity of data.
REQ-124: Human actor must verify the CGM readings every X hours with a glucose meter.
REQ-125: OpenAPS shall give a warning if it is connected to an incompatible version of Nightscout.

> REQ-126: Timestamping needs to match with CGM and RasPi clock and real clock with X seconds .

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-126: Timestamping needs to match with CGM and RasPi clock and real clock with X seconds.
```

> REQ-126: SEE REQ-118 (Timestamping needs to match with CGM and RasPi clock and real clock with X seconds .)

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-126: SEE REQ-118 (CGM clock must be accurate and match RasPi time and real clock time, to nearest X seconds.)
```

REQ-127: Timestamp needs to be accurate time of the reading rather than the time of the data transfer.
REQ-128: If possible, OpenAPS must monitor insulin pump battery.
REQ-129: OpenAPS must make less than X requests to the insulin pump per minute.

> REQ-130: Correct openAPS request timing must be specified, verified and monitored.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-130: Correct OpenAPS request timing must be specified, verified and monitored.
```

REQ-145: OpenAPS shall send a warning to human actor when human actor hasn't set up the rig matching with the configurations.
REQ-146: Whenever a change is made to the OpenAPS system or the compatible versions change, the docs shall be updated.
REQ-147: There shall only be one set of official OpenAPS documentation available for the human actor to read, which contain all information that is in any other instructions found online.
REQ-148: If there is a change to the system, the documentation shall be updated to reflect this.
REQ-149: OpenAPS docs regarding other components shall be reviewed regularly, in keeping with the latest recommended approach.
REQ-150: OpenAPS shall notify user when SD card is of the wrong size or format.
REQ-151: Important information in docs shall be easy to find in the hardware setup area of the docs.
REQ-152: The OpenAPS docs must be easy to navigate, with a search bar.
REQ-153: OpenAPS shall detect if incompatible insulin pump software is being used and indicate this to the user.
REQ-154: When new updates have been tested to be compatible, OpenAPS shall issue an email notification.
REQ-155: OpenAPS shall list compatible versions in the documentation.

> REQ-156: OpenAPS shall check that human is using compatible versions of components. New versions of components shall be tested.

Author: Separate requirements

REQ-157: Add configuration check between systems including of their software/firmware versions used and only allow system to work with insulin pumps that have been properly tested.

> REQ-158: Add prompts in OpenAPS UI that insists that human reviews and understands instructions prior to/during/after setting up the rig.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-158: Add prompts in OpenAPS UI that insists that human reviews and understands instructions prior to, during and after setting up the rig.
```

> REQ-159: Nice to have is an educational video on how to set up the rig.

Author: @nicpappler this needs some love, not sure how to change this

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-159: There shall be an educational video on how to set up the rig.
```

REQ-160: Any errors that are found in the insulin pump instructions shall be listed in the OpenAPS documentation.

> REQ-161: There shall be a way for errors in the insulin pump instructions to be directed to OpenAPS.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-161: There shall be a way for errors in the insulin pump instructions to be directed to the OpenAPS developers.
```

REQ-172: Human actor must get a notification e-mail when sofware versions change.
REQ-173: OpenAPS shall not provide dosing recommendations if it has not been tested to be safely compatible with the software versions of other components in the system.
REQ-174: Human actor shall be discouraged from installing any other dependencies that are not in the installation script.
REQ-175: Where possible, OpenAPS shall detect a change in the loop setup and request that the human actor updates the configurations.
REQ-176: If there is a change in the components that OpenAPS is physically connected to, OpenAPS shall prompt the human actor to review the configurations.
REQ-177: OpenAPS safe defaults shall be verified as part of each release.
REQ-178: Developers shall try and involve any new device which would improve the functionality of OpenAPS.
REQ-179: OpenAPS shall follow good secure coding practices.
REQ-180: OpenAPS rig shall ask for verification when the human actor has requested information.
REQ-181: OpenAPS shall make the human verify their selections after configuring OpenAPS.

> REQ-182: Human actor shall be warned to use only oref 0.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-182: Human actor shall be warned to use only oref0.
```

REQ-193: OpenAPS information shall be verified and not compromised.
REQ-194: Human shall be able to override the guidance of OpenAPS and keep OpenAPS running.
REQ-195: When the OpenAPS rig is disconnected, the insulin pump shall fall back to normal operation.
REQ-196: OpenAPS system shall supply a reason if it suggests that it needs to be turned off.
REQ-197: When human actor switches off the OpenAPS rig suddenly, the insulin pump goes back to normal operation and OpenAPS settings are retained as before.
REQ-198: If the OpenAPS rig is disconnected, the insulin pump shall go back to regular operation.
REQ-199: There shall be a forum and a resource which the human can use to understand the OpenAPS logs.
REQ-200: Human actor needs to know what to do and how to check if the insulin dosing is working.
REQ-201: Include prompt or message in the OpenAPS UI that OpenAPS is still booting up; nothing is wrong.
REQ-202: All of the buttons on the OpenAPS rig shall be clearly labelled.
REQ-203: Any parts of the OpenAPS rig that shall be treated with care shall come with a warning.

> REQ-204: Any parts of an OpenAPS rig that shall be treated with care shall come with a warning.

Author: duplicate

> REQ-204: Any parts of an OpenAPS rig that shall be treated with care shall come with a warning.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-204: SEE REQ-203 (Any parts of an OpenAPS rig that shall be treated with care shall come with a warning.)
```

REQ-205: Warning shall be easy to see for user and there shall be a warning symbol permanently present when there is a problem.
REQ-206: The human shall have the option to avoid entering meal data.
REQ-207: Any safety critical input shall trigger a prompt for verification.
REQ-208: OpenAPS shall warn the human actor if human has not input useful daily information in X hours.
REQ-209: Any OpenAPS relevant gap in insulin pump documentation that is found by a user shall be recorded in OpenAPS documentation or the OpenAPS forum.
REQ-210: OpenAPS documentation shall make it clear that the human will be able to operate the pump manually, before the human puts the loop in place.

> REQ-211: OpenAPS shall give notification either when human entry to insulin pump looks incorrect or when human actor may have forgotten to enter info into the insulin pump. Human shall still have ability to make decision (repeated requirement).

Author: duplicate

> REQ-211: OpenAPS shall give notification either when human entry to insulin pump looks incorrect or when human actor may have forgotten to enter info into the insulin pump. Human shall still have ability to make decision (repeated requirement).

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-211: OpenAPS shall give notification either when human entry to insulin pump looks incorrect or when human actor may have forgotten to enter info into the insulin pump. Human shall still have ability to make decision.
```

REQ-212: If mealtime data hasn't been entered into the insulin pump or OpenAPS rig for a long time, OpenAPS shall estimate the meal data or prompt the human to enter their meal data.

> REQ-213: OpenAPS shall give notification either when human entry to insulin pump looks incorrect or when human actor may have forgotten to enter info into the insulin pump. Human shall still have ability to make decision.

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-213: SEE REQ-211 (OpenAPS shall give notification either when human entry to insulin pump looks incorrect or when human actor may have forgotten to enter info into the insulin pump. Human shall still have ability to make decision.)
```

REQ-214: If the user data given to OpenAPS is causing recommendations which are leading to a non-optimal glucose level, OpenAPS shall adjust it's dosing recommendation and remind the human user to check the calibration of the CGM.
REQ-215: OpenAPS shall not provide dosing recommendations if the insulin pump is not configured correctly for OpenAPS use.

> REQ-216: SEE REQ-141 (OpenAPS instructions and any complexities shall be as clear as possible.)

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-216: OpenAPS instructions and any complexities shall be as clear as possible.
```

REQ-217: OpenAPS documentation shall state a time limit in which to provide meal data.
REQ-218: Insulin pump or OpenAPS docs shall recommend a timeframe to provide meal data to the insulin pump.
REQ-219: Make sure human knows the time for the insulin to react in their body and sets the advanced time (by X minutes) accordingly.

> REQ-220: OpenAPS instructions must be clear and non-ambiguous.

Author: Overlap with REQ-216

Author: ```suggestion
REQ-220: SEE REQ-216 (OpenAPS instructions and any complexities shall be as clear as possible.)
```

REQ-221: OpenAPS system shall come / start with test mode.
REQ-222: User shall be aware that this is not a toy and documentation shall outline major "Don'ts" as much as possible.
REQ-223: There shall be multiple reviews including signoffs and phase gates prior to release of OpenAPS instructions.
REQ-224: SEE REQ-85 (OpenAPS shall give a warning when human actor has provided non recommended configurations.)
REQ-225: The human shall be able to ask questions to an OpenAPS forum and preferably communicate with maintainers of the repository.
REQ-226: SEE REQ-84 (OpenAPS must pull all configurations from Insulin pump.)

> REQ-227: OpenAPS shall make a notification when the insulin pump settings do not match the recommended configuration in the OpenAPS documentation with X frequency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-227: OpenAPS shall make a notification when the insulin pump settings do not match the recommended configuration in the OpenAPS documentation with X frequency.
REQ-228: OpenAPS algorithm shall be designed for secure operation.
```

> REQ-1: The OpenAPS rig must pull ___ data from the other components of the system, every X seconds or whenever this data is available

Reviewer: Please specify what should be in the "pull ____ data", and clarify the time period for "X"

Author: I filled in the ___. The X time periods are the one thing I've left since it's a bigger task to specify all of these

> REQ-2: If OpenAPS believes that data is insufficient for a dosing recommendation to be made, OpenAPS should still predict the effect of the fallback dosing recommendation and if this is far out of the targets it should make a dosing recommendation anyway

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-2: If OpenAPS believes that data is insufficient for a dosing recommendation to be made, OpenAPS should still predict the effect of the fallback dosing recommendation and if this is far out of the targets it should make a dosing recommendation anyway with a warning
```

Author: Updated in the sheet

REQ-3: There should be a way for the human manually to override glucose data from the CGM / Nightscout.
REQ-4: OpenAPS should prompt the user every week to calibrate the CGM.
REQ-5: The OpenAPS rig should emit a warning if it's going out of range of the insulin pump
REQ-6: If the insulin pump goes out of range of OpenAPS, it should fall back to normal operation
REQ-7: OpenAPS should have watchdog timer or heartbeat communications between systems to detect if insulin pump is working properly and if not warn the user.
REQ-8: If the Insulin Pump is on low battery, OpenAPS should stop sending it commands and let it fall back to normal operation
REQ-9: The OpenAPS algorithm must set a temporary basal dosing recommendation if the insulin dosage is not optimal and it has been over X minutes since the last temporary basal recommendation

> REQ-10: OpenAPS algorithm should be tested previously, validated in realtime for accuracy and designed securely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-10: OpenAPS algorithm should be tested, validated in realtime for accuracy and designed securely
```

Author: Updated in the sheet

REQ-11: If OpenAPS is having problems communicating with other devices in the loop, OpenAPS should indicate this and fallback to the human programmed basal rates
REQ-12: OpenAPS shall warn the human actor if it is no longer connected to and/or no longer receiving information from Nightscout.

> REQ-13: There should be checks for wireless interference every X minutes, and OpenAPS should send a warning to the user if there is a positive result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-13: There should be checks for wireless interference every X minutes, and OpenAPS should send a warning to the user if there is a positive result.
```

> REQ-14: OpenAPS plausibility check shall include examination of the raw data from the insulin pump to ensure the data is in its expected range

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-14: OpenAPS plausibility check shall include examination of the raw data from the insulin pump to ensure the data is in its expected range.
```

REQ-15: OpenAPS must inform the human actor if the insulin pump is set to use the wrong units
REQ-16: If the OpenAPS rig components are not connected together properly there must be an alarm, warning or error
REQ-17: The OpenAPS rig components must connect together securely
REQ-18: User manual must specify the correct hardware setup
REQ-19: Software must check that all required OpenAPS dependencies are present
REQ-20: Hardware connections need to be set up to match the configuration the human entered to the openAPS configuration.
REQ-21: Communication between components must have an integrity check

> REQ-22: Must have watchdog timer or heartbeat communications between systems to detect if insulin pump is working properly and if not warn the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-22: Must have watchdog timer or heartbeat communications between systems to detect if insulin pump is working properly and warn the user if it is not.
```

REQ-23: OpenAPS must alert human actor if the insulin pump has stopped giving feedback
REQ-24: OpenAPS should be able to interpret error signals from insulin pump and convey to the human actor
REQ-25: The OpenAPS rig must have as long a battery life as possible
REQ-26: The OpenAPS rig must alert the user when on low power
REQ-27: The OpenAPS rig must have a safe exit process
REQ-28: Docs must have guidelines on avoiding a low power supply

> REQ-29: If OpenAPS is having problems communicating with other devies in the loop, OpenAPS should indicate this and fallback to the human programmed basal rates

Reviewer: This looks like a duplicate of REQ-11.

> REQ-30: OpenAPS wireless network signals must have a radio frequency between X MegaHertz and Y MegaHertz

Reviewer: we probably need to specify X and Y - or rephrase this to some other criteria.

> REQ-31: OpenAPS documentation must direct the human actor to easily use the right dependencies, perhaps via an automated script

Reviewer: let's be specific about which dependencies.   I'm thinking this is software dependencies for the OpenAPS system, but ??

> REQ-32: If the human actor updates to incompatible dependencies, there must be a way to restore dependencies that work for OpenAPS easily

Reviewer: Again here, we should be a bit more explicit about the type of dependencies.

REQ-33: When backward compatibility is affected by an update, it needs to be clearly flagged

> REQ-34: There should be a heartbeat mechanism to monitor activeness between systems

Reviewer: Possibly redundant with earlier ones?

Author: Yeah possibly, happy to remove this, I wasn't confident to pull the trigger on this.

REQ-35: When the OpenAPS system is running, there should not be a period of X seconds with no active dosing recommendation from OpenAPS
REQ-36: OpenAPS application shall have a monitoring task that will check if tasks are taking too long to execute and warn the user if this occurs.
REQ-37: The insulin pump must be set to the correct time.
REQ-38: If OpenAPS is using a different time to the insulin pump, OpenAPS should notify the human actor

> REQ-39: OpenAPS should be able to register human input glucose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REQ-39: OpenAPS should be able to register human input of glucose levels
```

REQ-149: OpenAPS docs regarding other components should be reviewed regularly, in keeping with the latest recommended approach
REQ-150: OpenAPS should notify user when SD card is of the wrong size or format
REQ-151: Important information in docs should be easy to find in the hardware setup area of the docs
REQ-152: The OpenAPS docs must be easy to navigate, with a search bar
REQ-153: OpenAPS should detect if incompatible insulin pump software is being used and indicate this to the user
REQ-154: When new updates have been tested to be compatible, OpenAPS should issue an email notification
REQ-155: OpenAPS should list compatible versions in the documentation
REQ-156: OpenAPS should check that human is using compatible versions of components. New versions of components should be tested
REQ-157: Add configuration check between systems including of their software/firmware versions used and only allow system to work with insulin pumps that have been properly tested
REQ-158: Add prompts in OpenAPS UI that insists that human reviews and understands instructions prior to/during/after setting up the rig.

> REQ-159: Nice to have is an educational video on how to set up the rig

Reviewer: Probably this should grouped under some sort of training -   Open question for nicole - is should requirements contain "Nice to have"?
